To: All MN State Convention Delegates

From: Rev. Darryl Knappen, Douglas County Delegate 

Subject: The Disenfranchisement of 564 Otter Tail Caucus attendees by MNGOP

Summary:

1.    After the 2022 OTC Caucuses, precinct leaders and other grassroots members discovered that OTC leadership added over 30 unelected delegates and alternates after the caucus. It is likely that more unelected individuals were added; however, OTC leadership never allowed an audit of all caucus records to confirm accuracy. Many members expressed concern that the additions were made to benefit one candidate in a contested endorsement.

2.    At the 2023 OTC BPOU Convention, OTC leadership barred 33 duly elected delegates and alternates from entrance and participation because they allegedly supported an unendorsed candidate in the 2022 Primary and General elections. 

3.    The OTC leadership unconstitutionally removed those elected delegates because the phrase “supporting the endorsed candidate” was not in their Constitution at that time. So At the 2023 OTC BPOU Convention, OTC leadership proposed a new OTC Constitution and Bylaws which were narrowly adopted in a standing vote. If the 33 disenfranchised delegates and alternates had been allowed to enter and participate and vote, the documents would almost certainly not have been adopted. A month after the 2023 convention, OTC leadership amended the newly-passed bylaws to include numerous new qualifications for party participation.

4.    Since 2023, the 33 disenfranchised members have grown their numbers to over 350 grassroots patriots who attended OTC caucuses on February 27, 2024. Those delegates were elected “by the book” according to state law and MNGOP caucus training. To make matters even more confusing, OTC leadership withheld paperwork necessary to certify the elections on caucus night.

5.    On March 5, 2024, Chairman David Hann dismissed all 2024 OTC delegates and alternates that were elected at their caucus on 2/27/2024 and replaced them with 2022 OTC delegates and alternates. He did that by claiming their 2/27/2024 caucus was invalid and therefore no delegates were elected. This disenfranchised thousands of Republican voters, who were represented by those 2024 elected delegates. If allowed to stand, this arbitrary ruling will (and did) disenfranchise dozens of newly-elected delegates and alternates who will lose (and who lost) their ability to participate at the hoped for OTC BPOU Convention and SD9 Endorsing Convention, at a minimum. This is contrary to the State Party MNGOP Constitution which states in ARTICLE V SECTION 5, under “Election and Terms of Delegates” . . .  “delegates and alternates . . . shall hold office for a term of two (2) years or until their successors are elected.” The MNGOP constitution also states in Article III, SECTION 3: Under Rights, “Nothing in this constitution shall be construed to deny or abridge the rights of any voter to participate in any party caucus, primary or convention, where he/she is entitled by law to participate”.

6.    The current OTC nomination form for CD7/State positions requires candidates to check off the answer to this question: “Did you support all Republican-endorsed candidates in the last election, yes or no?” And, “If you disagree with a Republican-endorsed candidate, can you still support their election efforts and encourage other Republicans to do so, yes or no?” It is assumed that delegate and alternate candidates who do not affirm these statements will be disqualified from running for CD7/State positions at the upcoming (but canceled or never scheduled) OTC BPOU Convention.

Paid for independently by Darryl Knappen, 550 Eldo Ln SW Alexandria, MN 56308